[2201.9.0] Add resource mocking content (#8874)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: swan-lake/development-tutorials/test-document-the-code/test-ballerina-code/mocking.md

## Mock objects

> The `Test` module provides capabilities to mock an object for unit testing. This allows you to control the behavior of the methods of an object and values of member fields via stubbing or replacing the entire object with a user-defined equivalent. This feature will help you to test the Ballerina code independently of other modules and external endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [ballerina/test](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerina/test/latest) module provides capabilities to mock an object for unit testing. This allows you to control the behavior of the methods of an object and values of member fields via stubbing or replacing the entire object with a user-defined equivalent. This feature will help you to test the Ballerina code independent of other modules and external endpoints.
```

Mocking objects can be done in two ways :

1. Creating a test double (providing an equivalent object in place of the real object)

> 2. Stubbing the methods and fields of the object (specifying the behavior of the methods and values of the object fields)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Stubbing the methods, resources, and fields of the object (specifying the behavior of the methods, resources and, values of the object fields)
```

> 2. Stubbing the methods and fields of the object (specifying the behaviour of the methods and values of the object fields)

Reviewer 2: this should be `behavior` based on american english

}
```

> ### Stub the methods and fields of an object

Reviewer: Let's have separate sections for methods (normal and remote), resources and fields to avoid going into 5 levels of subsections.

> #### Stub remote methods/ normal methods

Reviewer 2: Avoid slashes. https://developers.google.com/style/slashes

> #### Stub remote methods or normal methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Stub object methods
```

> #### Stub remote methods or normal methods

Reviewer 3: Shall we just say Stub methods and then in the description say it applies to methods other than resource methods?

> >**Note:** Usage of this approach is applicable all the methods other than resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usage of this approach is applicable all the methods other than resources.
```

> >**Note:** It is important to ensure that all methods of the object being tested are properly stubbed. 

Author: `all the methods of the object being tested`  implies `all that's called`..right??

> >**Note:** It is important to ensure that all methods of the object being tested are properly stubbed. 

Reviewer 3: For me it sounds like the object is being tested, but I get your point. What if we say
```suggestion
>**Note:** It is important to ensure that all methods (of the object) being tested are properly stubbed. 
```

> >**Note:** It is important to ensure that all methods of the object being tested are properly stubbed. 

Author: will change that way.. That looks good..

> If any method is called within the implementation that hasn't been stubbed, the test framework will generate an 
> error message in the following format: 

> > `no cases registered for member function '<member_function_name>' of object type '<object_type>'.`

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we use backticks around`<member_function_name>` and `<object_type>` instead of single quote?

Author: We have already used backticks for the complete sentence to show the sample error message.  Here `<member_function_name>` and `<object_type>` just act as placeholders. In the actual error message, we use quotes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> ``no cases registered for member function `<member_function_name>` of object type `<object_type>`.``
```
@Thevakumar-Luheerathan Since the whole sentence is within backticks, if we add single backticks around  `<member_function_name>`, it will break the syntax highlighting. Therefore we need to wrap the whole thing in duble backticks  and wrap `<member_function_name>` in single backticks as above.

Author: > @Thevakumar-Luheerathan Since the whole sentence is within backticks, if we add single backticks around `<member_function_name>`, it will break the syntax highlighting. Therefore we need to wrap the whole thing in duble backticks and wrap `<member_function_name>` in single backticks as above.

I think, we can't use backticks here as it represents the actual error message.  A sample error message looks like `no cases registered for member function 'get' of object type 'anon_type4'.`

}
```

##### Stub to return a specific value

***main_test.bal***

> This test stubs the behaviour of the `get` method to return a specific value in 2 ways:

Reviewer 2: This should be behavior. Check all the places on this page, as it seems it is appearing wrong in many places.

}
```

##### Stub with multiple values to return sequentially for each function call

***main_test.bal***

> This test stubs the behavior of the `get` method to return a specified sequence of values for each `get` method invocation (i.e., the first call to the `get` method will return the first argument and the second call will return the second argument).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test stubs the behavior of the `get` method to return a specified sequence of values for each invocation (i.e., the first call to the `get` method will return the first argument and the second call will return the second argument).
```

> This test stubs the behaviour of the `get` method to return a specified sequence of values for each `get` method invocation (i.e., the first call to the `get` method will return the first argument and the second call will return the second argument).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This test stubs the behavior of the `get` method to return a specified sequence of values for each `get` method invocation (i.e., the first call to the `get` method will return the first argument, and the second call will return the second argument).
```

}
```

##### Stub to do nothing

If a method has an optional or no return type specified, this method can be mocked to do nothing when writing test cases.

***Example:***

***main.bal***

```ballerina
import ballerina/email;

email:SmtpClient smtpClient = check new ("localhost", "admin","admin");

> // This function sends out emails to specified email addresses and returns an error if sending failed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// This function sends out emails to specified email addresses and returns an error if sending fails.
```

function sendNotification(string[] emailIds) returns error? {
    email:Message msg = {
        'from: "builder@abc.com",
        subject: "Error Alert ...",
        to: emailIds,
        body: ""
    };
    return check smtpClient->sendMessage(msg);
}
```
***main_test.bal***

This test stubs the behavior of the `sendMessage` method to do nothing for testing the `sendNotification` function.

```ballerina
import ballerina/test;
import ballerina/email;

@test:Config {}
function testSendNotification() {
    string[] emailIds = ["user1@test.com", "user2@test.com"];

    // Create a default mock SMTP client and assign it to the `smtpClient` object.
    smtpClient = test:mock(email:SmtpClient);

    // Stub to do nothing when the`sendMessage` method is invoked.
    test:prepare(smtpClient).when("sendMessage").doNothing();

    // Invoke the function to test and verify that no error occurred.
    test:assertEquals(sendNotification(emailIds), ());
}
```

> #### Stub resource methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Stub object resources
```

> Similar to remote methods, resource methods also can be stubbed to return a specific value, a series of values or, to do nothing. To mock a resource method, the resource method name(`get`, `post`, `put`, ...etc) and resource path should be specified. Each path parameter in the resource path should be indicated with a colon(`:`) prefix. Similarly, Rest parameters should be indicated with a double colon(`::`) prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to remote methods, resources also can be stubbed to return a specific value, a series of values or, to do nothing. To mock a resource method, the resource name (e.g: `get`, `post`, `put`) and resource path must be specified. Each path parameter in the resource path must be indicated with a colon (`:`) prefix. Similarly, rest parameters should be indicated with a double colon(`::`) prefix.
```

***Example:***

Let's consider the following client example.

***main.bal***

```ballerina
public type Employee record {|
    readonly string id;
    string firstName;
    string lastName;
    string gender;
|};

EmpClient empClient = new ();

public client class EmpClient {
    map<Employee> employees;

    function init() {
        self.employees = {};
    }

    resource function get employees/[string... args]() returns string {
        return "Welcome to the Employees API";
    }

    resource function get employee/[string id]() returns Employee? {
        return self.employees[id];
    }

    resource function get employee/welcome/[string id](string firstName, string lastName) returns string {
        return "Welcome " + firstName + " " + lastName + ". your ID is " + id;
    }
}
```

##### Stub to return a specific value with a resource method

***main_test.bal***
 

> This test stubs the behavior of the below resource method to return a specific value in 4 ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test stubs the behavior of the below resource to return a specific value in 4 ways:
```

```ballerina
    resource function get employee/welcome/[string id](string firstName, string lastName) returns string {
        return "Welcome " + firstName + " " + lastName + ". your ID is " + id;
    }
```

1. Stubbing to return a specific value in general
2. Stubbing to return a specific value based on the path parameter
3. Stubbing to return a specific value based on the method arguments
4. Stubbing to return a specific value based on the path parameter and the method arguments

```ballerina
@test:Config {}
function testWelcomeEmployee() {
    empClient = test:mock(EmpClient);
    // Stubbing to return a specific value in general
    test:prepare(empClient).whenResource("employee/welcome/:id").onMethod("get").thenReturn("Stub_1");

    // Stubbing to return a specific value on a specific path parameter

>     test:prepare(empClient).whenResource("employee/welcome/:id").onMethod("get").withPathParameters({id: ""}).thenReturn("Stub_2");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    test:prepare(empClient).whenResource("employee/welcome/:id").onMethod("get")
        .withPathParameters({id: ""}).thenReturn("Stub_2");
```

Author: In another PR, I was asked not to use line breaks as it automatically adjusts.  This is showing properly in actual website view. So, I think, we don't need this line break

>     // Stubbing to return a specific value on a specific method arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Stubbing to return a specific value on specific method arguments
```

>     test:prepare(empClient).whenResource("employee/welcome/:id").onMethod("get").withArguments("", "").thenReturn("Stub_3");

Reviewer: Let's add meaningful arguments instead of empty strings.

    // Stubbing to return a specific value on a specific path parameter and method arguments

>     test:prepare(empClient).whenResource("employee/welcome/:id").onMethod("get").withPathParameters({id: ""}).withArguments("", "").thenReturn("Stub_4");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    test:prepare(empClient).whenResource("employee/welcome/:id").onMethod("get")
    .withPathParameters({id: ""}).withArguments("", "").thenReturn("Stub_4");
```

Author: This is shown properly in the website view as this is a code block.

>     // Specific path parameter and method arguments should take precedence over general stubbing

Reviewer: What are we trying to explain here?

Author: There may be multiple mocks applicable to a method call.. say, one mock is only with `thenReturn`, another mock we have some path parameters mentioned.. Then the second mock will be executed over the 1st one.

Reviewer: Let's explain the scenario briefly. The comment is not explaining the use case.

    string result = empClient->/employee/welcome/[""].get(firstName = "", lastName = "");
    test:assertEquals(result, "Stub_4");

    // Specific method arguments should take precedence over general stubbing
    result = empClient->/employee/welcome/["emp001"].get(firstName = "", lastName = "");
    test:assertEquals(result, "Stub_3");

    // Specific path parameter should take precedence over general stubbing
    result = empClient->/employee/welcome/[""].get(firstName = "John", lastName = "Kibert");
    test:assertEquals(result, "Stub_2");

    // General stubbing should be used when no specific stubbing is available
    result = empClient->/employee/welcome/["emp001"].get(firstName = "John", lastName = "Kibert");
    test:assertEquals(result, "Stub_1");
}
```

> ##### Stub with multiple values to return sequentially for each function call with a resource method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Stub with multiple values to return sequentially for each invocation of the resource
```

***main_test.bal***

> Similar to other object methods, the resource method also can return a value from a sequence of values during method invocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to other object methods, the resource also can return a value from a sequence of values during method invocation.
```

> >**Note:** `withArguments` and `withPathParameters` functions do not support with `thenReturnSequence`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** `withArguments` and `withPathParameters` functions are not supported with `thenReturnSequence`.
```

```ballerina
@test:Config {}
function testGetAllEmployeeById() {
    // Create a mock client
    empClient = test:mock(EmpClient);
    Employee emp1 = {id: "emp001", firstName: "John", lastName: "Doe", gender: "male"};
    Employee emp2 = {id: "emp002", firstName: "John", lastName: "Kennedy", gender: "male"};
    Employee emp3 = {id: "emp003", firstName: "John", lastName: "Kill", gender: "male"};

    // Stub to return the corresponding value for each invocation 
    test:prepare(empClient).whenResource("employee/:id").onMethod("get").thenReturnSequence(emp1, emp2, emp3);

    // Invoke function calls 
    Employee? result = empClient->/employee/["emp001"].get();
    test:assertEquals(result, emp1);
    Employee? result1 = empClient->/employee/["emp002"].get();
    test:assertEquals(result1, emp2);
    Employee? result2 = empClient->/employee/["emp002"].get();
    test:assertEquals(result2, emp3);
}
```

##### Stub to do nothing with a resource method

***main_test.bal***

> If a resource method has an optional or no return type specified, this method can be mocked to do nothing when writing test cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a resource has an optional or no return type specified, this method can be mocked to do nothing when writing test cases.
```

    smtpClient = test:mock(email:SmtpClient);

    // Stub to do nothing when the`sendMessage` method is invoked.
    test:prepare(smtpClient).when("sendMessage").doNothing();

    // Invoke the function to test and verify that no error occurred.
    test:assertEquals(sendNotification(emailIds), ());
}
```

### Stub resources

Similar to remote methods, resources also can be stubbed to return a specific value, a series of values or, to do nothing. To mock a resource, the resource name (e.g: `get`, `post`, `put`) and resource path must be specified. Each path parameter in the resource path must be indicated with a colon (`:`) prefix. Similarly, rest parameters should be indicated with a double colon(`::`) prefix.

***Example:***

Let's consider the following client example.

***main.bal***

```ballerina
public type Employee record {|
    readonly string id;
    string firstName;
    string lastName;
    string gender;
|};

EmpClient empClient = new ();

public client class EmpClient {
    map<Employee> employees;

    function init() {
        self.employees = {};
    }

    resource function get employees/[string... args]() returns string {

>         return "Welcome to the Employees API";

Author: Seems that API is not used.. I'll remove it
